.. _guidelines:


Guidelines for use of computer equipment at the METU Physics department
===================================================================================


Definitions
-----------

 Explanation of words and expressions used in these guidelines.

users:
    Every person who has access to and who uses the University's
    computer equipment. This includes employees students and others who
    are granted access to the computer equipment.
user contract:
    Agreement between users and department(s) at the University who
    regulate the user's right of access to the computer equipment. The
    user contract is also a confirmation that these guidelines are
    accepted by the user.
data:
    All information that is on the computer equipment. This includes
    both the contents of data files and software.
computer network:
    Hardware and/or software which makes it possible to establish a
    connection between two or more computer terminals. This includes
    both private, local, national and international computer networks
    which are accessible through the computer equipment.
breakdown:
    Disturbances and abnormalities which prevent the user from
    (stoppage) maximum utilization of the computer equipment.
computer equipment:
    This includes hardware, software, data, services and computer
    network.
hardware:
    Mechanical equipment that can be used for data processing.
private data:
    Data found in reserved or private areas or that are marked as
    private. The data in a user's account is to be regarded as private
    irrespective of the rights attached to the data.
resources:
    Resources refers to the computer equipment including time and the
    capacity available for the persons who are connected to the
    equipment.


Purpose
-------

The purpose of these guidelines is to contribute towards the development of a
computer environment in which the potential provided by the computer equipment
can be utilized in the best possible way by the University and by society at
large. This is to promote education and research and to disseminate knowledge
about scientific methods and results.


Application
-----------

These guidelines apply to the use of the University's computer equipment and
apply to all users who are granted access to the computer equipment. The
guidelines are to be part of a user contract and are otherwise to be accessible
at suitable places such as the terminal room. The use of the computer equipment
also requires that the user knows any possible supplementary regulations.


Good Faith
----------

Never leave any doubt as to your identity and give your full name in addition
to explaining your connection to the University. A user is always to identify
him/ herself by name, his/ her own user identity, password or in another
regular way when using services on the computer network. The goodwill of
external environments is not to be abused by the user accessing information not
intended for the user, or by use of the services for purposes other than that
for which they are intended. Users are to follow the instructions from system
administrators about the use of computer equipment. Users are also expected to
familiarize themselves with the user guides, manuals, documentation etc. in
order to reduce the risk of breakdowns or loss of data or equipment (through
ignorance). On termination of employment or studies, it is the users
responsibility to ensure that copies of data owned or used by the University
are secured on behalf of the University.


Data Safety
-----------

Users are obliged to take the necessity measures to prevent the loss of data
etc. by taking back-up copies, careful storage of media, etc. This can be done
by ensuring that the systems management take care of it. Your files are in
principle personal but should be protected so that they cannot be read by
others. Users are obliged to protect the integrity of their passwords or other
safety elements known to them, in addition to preventing unauthorized people
from obtaining access to the computer equipment. Introducing data involves the
risk of unwanted elements such as viruses. Users are obliged to take measures
to protect the computer equipment from such things. Users are obliged to report
circumstances that may have importance for the safety or integrity of the
equipment to the closest superior or to the person who is responsible for data
safety.


Respect for Other Users Privacy
-------------------------------

Users may not try to find out another persons password, etc., nor try to obtain
unauthorized access to another persons data. This is true independent of
whether or not the data is protected. Users are obliged to familiarize
themselves with the special rules that apply to the storage of personal
information (on others). If a user wishes to register personal information, the
user concerned is obliged to ensure that there is permission for this under the
law for registration of information on persons or rules authorized by the law
or with acceptance of rights given to the University. In cases where
registration of such information is not permitted by these rules the user is
obliged to apply for (and obtain? ) the necessary permission. Users are bound
by the oaths of secrecy concerning personal relationships of which the user
acquires knowledge through use of computer equipment, ref. to the definition in
section 13 second section of the Administration Law, (forvaltningslovens
section 13 annet ledd).


Proper Use
----------

The computer equipment of the University may not be used to advance slander or
discriminating remarks, nor to distribute pornography or spread secret
information, or to violate the peace of private life or to incite or take part
in illegal actions. This apart, users are to restrain from improper
communication on the network.

The computer equipment is to be used in accordance with the aims of the
University. This excludes direct commercial use.


Awareness of the Purposes for Use of Resources
----------------------------------------------

The computer equipment of the University is to strengthen and support
professional activity, administration, research and teaching. Users have a
co-responsibility in making the best possible use of the resources.


Rights
------

Data is usually linked to rights which make their use dependent on agreements
with the holder of the rights. Users commit themselves to respecting other
people's rights. This applies also when the University makes data accessible.
The copying of programs in violation of the rights of use and/or license
agreement is not permitted.


Liability
---------

Users themselves are responsible for the use of data which is made accessible
via the computer equipment. The University disclaims all responsibility for any
loss that results from errors or defects in computer equipment, including for
example, errors or defects in data, use of data from accessible databases or
other data that has been obtained through the computer network etc. The
University is not responsible for damage or loss suffered by users as a
consequence of insufficient protection of their own data.


Surveillance
------------

The systems manager has the right to seek access to the individual user's
reserved areas on the equipment for the purpose of ensuring the equipment's'
proper functioning or to control that the user does not violate or has not
violated the regulations in these guidelines. It is presupposed that such
access is only sought when it is of great importance to absolve the University
from responsibility or bad reputation. If the systems manager seeks such
access, the user should be warned about it in an appropriate way. Ordinarily
such a warning should be given in writing and in advance. If the use of a
workstation, terminal or other end user equipment is under surveillance because
of operational safety or other considerations, information about this must be
given in an appropriate way. The systems managers are bound by oaths of secrecy
with respect to information about the user or the user's activity which they
obtain in this way, the exception being that circumstances which could
represent a violation of these guidelines may be reported to superior
authorities.


Sanctions
---------

Breach of these guidelines can lead to the user being denied access to the
University's data services, in addition to which there are sanctions that the
University can order, applying other rules. Breach of privacy laws, oaths of
secrecy etc. can lead to liability or punishment. The usual rules for dismissal
or (forced) resignation of employees or disciplinary measures against students,
apply to users who misuse the computer equipment. The reasons for sanctions
against a user are to be stated, and can be ordered by the person who has
authority given by the University. Disciplinary measures against students are
passed by the University Council, ref. section 47 of the University law.


Complaints
----------

Complaints about sanctions are to be directed to the person(s) who order
sanctions. If the complaint is not complied with, it is sent on to the
University Council for final decision. Complaints about surveillance have the
same procedure as for sanctions. The procedure for complaints about dismissal
or resignation of employees are the usual rules for the University, and rules
otherwise valid in Norwegian society. Decisions about disciplinary measures
against students cannot be complained about, See ยง 47 of the University law.
